---
layout: post
title: Big Fish
date: 2005-09-14 13:23:19 +01:00
categories:
- Personal
---
On Friday evening, my parents, my (nearly!) in-laws, Annabel and I went to [Big Fish](http://www.thecommissary.co.uk/bigfish.htm) for dinner, as it was my birthday on Wednesday.  We discovered the place through [edinburgers](http://www.livejournal.com/users/edinburgers) a few months back and have been three times over the summer.  The place is only open occasionally -- every couple of weekends, and only through the summer -- being used as a base for James Robb's catering company the rest of the time.

It's a unique concept, to me at least.  For the main  course, you select the type of fish you'd like -- salmon, tuna, swordfish or monk fish -- along with the way you'd like it prepared -- char-grilled, blackened, steamed or pan-fried.  Each method of preparation has its own appropriate accompaniment.  Every time I've been, I've had monk fish in one style or another.  It's a fantastic meaty fish (almost the consistency of king prawns, but <em>way</em> larger!) and I've never really noticed the opportunity to sample it elsewhere.  This time, I had it char-grilled, which was out of this world.  My starter was steamed mussels in a Thai-style coconut broth and pudding was Lanark Blue cheese with oatcakes and quince.  The Lanark Blue was a bit too strong for my tastes, I think -- I'm still learning to like strong cheeses -- but all in all it was a fantastic meal.

I would highly recommend heading along to Big Fish, but unfortunately, the web site indicates that it has now closed for the winter.  I'm looking forward to next summer already...
