---
layout: post
title: Macro Lenses
date: 2005-08-28 18:30:43 +01:00
categories:
- Photography
---
In an unsubtle attempt at looking for birthday present ideas (what with my birthday being in 10 days!), I spent yesterday dragging Annabel around Jessops, looking at macro lenses for my camera.  I tried out 3 lenses:

* [Canon EF 100mm f/2.8 Macro USM](http://www.canon.co.uk/for_home/product_finder/cameras/ef_lenses/macro_lenses/ef_100mm_f28_macro_usm/index.asp).  This one was really nice -- lovely clarity, super-fast focusing (thanks to their USM technology) -- but a bit out of my price range at &pound;400.  And it suffered from one really irritating problem the others have evaded: the manual focusing ring spins when it's in auto focus mode. The way I tend to balance the camera, I was finding this really annoying.
* [Sigma Macro 105mm f/2.8 EX DG](http://www.sigmaphoto.com/lenses/lenses_all_details.asp?id=3253&navigator=5).  I spent longest playing around with this one, taking pictures of bits of paper, Annabel's nose, that kind of thing.  I could fill an entire frame with just the word 'Sigma' on their warranty card.  And the short depth of focus at f/2.8 made for fantastic background blurring.  It's <em>much</em> slower to focus and it's pretty noisy, though -- something I suspect could be a problem if one is trying to surreptitiously take photos of beasties that you'd like to stay still long enough to get off a few shots.  The noise of the motor focusing is likely to have them legging it for the nearest tree.  On the other hand, the price tag is far more reasonable, at &pound;300.
* [Tamron SP AF 90mm F/2.8 Di Macro 1:1](http://www.tamron.de/index.php?id=106&L=2&kc_prid=17) which was being held in reserve for somebody else.  To be honest, in usability terms, I couldn't spot much difference between this one and the Sigma lens.  Maybe there's a difference in picture quality -- I'll have to turn to the reviews for that -- but there's certainly a difference in price: this one comes in at &pound;370.

The bloke at Jessops (who was exceptionally friendly and helpful, BTW -- for the Edinburgh folks, I'd highly recommend the branch in Kinnaird Park for all your photography needs) was telling me about Canon's new offering: [EF-S 60mm f/2.8 Macro USM](http://www.canon.co.uk/for_home/product_finder/cameras/ef_lenses/macro_lenses/ef-s_60mm_f2.8_macro_usm/index.asp) and recommending I try to get a shot of that before making up my mind.  Unfortunately, despite the computer listing both local branches as having one in stock, neither could find it!  So I've one on back order to try and hopefully it should be coming in within the next week or so.

I should disclaim, by the way, that I'm not attempting to con anybody (Annabel, parents, Laura, generous blog reader!) into buying me &pound;400 worth of lens -- I'm just trying to suggest that a contribution of some sort would be affy nice since I'd really like to acquire a macro lens before I head off to Greece in the middle of September.  Think of all the beasties and lizards I'll be able to take pictures of there -- and I've one of the best tour guides for hunting down and spotting these creatures with us!  I shall return with millions of pictures of Starred Agamas. :-)
