---
layout: post
title: Backups
date: 2006-01-12 13:33:34 +00:00
categories:
- Geekery
---
OK, so over the holidays I finally developed a new, exciting habit: backing up my laptop.  I still haven't worked it into a regular schedule, but having a week old backup is better than none at all, I suppose!

I'm using <a href="http://www.shirt-pocket.com/SuperDuper/SuperDuperDescription.html">SuperDuper!</a>on my laptop to make regular backups to an external Firewire disk.  I had started simply by using SuperDuper to back up my laptop prior to nuking everything and reinstalling, but I've continued to use it since.  I back up to a sparse disk image on the firewire drive which, while not bootable, means I'm not using the entire 280GB drive to back up a 100GB disk in the laptop.  At some point I should repartition that drive so that I can back straight to another disk and make it bootable, leaving another partition of 80GB for my desktop machine and the remainder for my <a href="http://www.apple.com/aperture/">Aperture</a> file vault.

Anyway, this isn't so much of a how-to or what-I-should-do, but a recommendation of SuperDuper!  It's really easy to use -- creating my first complete backup took only a couple of clicks -- fast and I've successfully used it for restoring data too.  It does have a 'smart update' feature which reduces backup times -- from nearly 2 hours to around 15 minutes in my case -- by copying only the data that has changed since the last backup.

Dead simple, it Just Works, and it lowers the barrier to getting around to doing backups.  What better can be said for backup software?
