---
layout: post
title: Using Twitter for business
date: 2010-02-26 15:41:02 +00:00
categories:
- Uncategorized
---
<p>I started writing an email, ranting about the dos and don'ts of using Twitter to promote your business. What originally irked me was somebody asking for examples of businesses who have successfully used Twitter to generate sales leads. This is my response, which got off-topic enough that I ditched the email, but I think there's some element of truth to it at least:</p>
<p>Having been involved in Twitter since the relatively early days (I joined in November 2006, apparently), and having talked to people at conferences about how to successfully use Twitter for business, I've got a few opinions about how to do it right. It should not be (directly) a tool for generating sales leads. It's a tool for engaging with your community (or starting to actually develop a community in the first place, if you've never had a two-way channel with your customers before now). If you're going to give the Twitter account to one department in your company, don't give it to sales, give it to customer support.</p>
<p>And for goodness sake don't make it a write-only medium. There are millions of Twitter accounts that consist of nothing more than "New blog post: http://link/to/post" and they're a waste of time. Then there are the ones that take the time to tweet, but never respond to people that reply to them. A huge opportunity to start a conversation with somebody who's interested in your company, and it's wasted!</p>
<p>Another mistake one of my previous clients just wouldn't listen to my advice on: post ... I can't quite find the right word here, closest I can think is ... post organically. Like it's the water cooler conversations through the day. Don't open up your twitter client first thing in the morning, dump a bunch of tweets out there and close it again. It's a variant on treating it as a write-only medium, but it's even worse because people are probably only going to read a couple of those tweets from the fire hose before they carry on.</p>
<p>Set up searches for your company, product names, and relevant topics. When you see somebody else talking about your company or products, get involved in the conversation. Some of the best karma I've seen around companies on Twitter is when an individual makes an offhand complaint about a product on Twitter, and the company responds, eventually resolving the issue. I've seen my friends have these sorts of experiences with a wide range of companies from the behemoths (BT) to smaller web-based startups (GitHub).</p>
<p>Of course, I'm talking from the perspective of a consumer on Twitter. I don't have a great deal of experience from the business end (though I have won business through conversations I've had on Twitter and new acquaintances I've "met" there). So, what do you think? And what are some of the best examples you've seen of companies successfully using Twitter?</p>
<p>PS, if you don't already, you should [follow me on Twitter](http://twitter.com/mathie). :-)</p>
