---
layout: post
title: The Geek Family Tools
---
I think it's safe to say that we are a "geek family." I'm a software engineer
by trade, so I bring a certain influence to it. And my wife has put up with
cohabiting with geeks for her entire adult life. I think it's rubbed off on her
a bit -- she knows more about Star Trek than I'll ever admit to, for example.
Our two kids -- Malcolm is six, and Emily has just turned three -- are growing
up in an environment where technology is commonplace, largely thanks to my
affinity for shiny toys.

Annabel and I both have iPhones, and we both have Apple laptops. There's a
shared iPad too. Well, sometimes it's shared, sometimes it's argued over, when
the kids want to play games, and I want to read, or cook! (More on cooking,
later.)

We're trying to get to a stage where we're a little more organised, a little
less cluttered, and have greater visibility of family life. Naturally, I want
to introduce tools to help our daily lives -- tools I've been using in other
contexts (organising my personal life, my work, etc) for years now. I thought
it might be useful to outline the tools that we're starting to use, the
problems we're trying to solve, and the obstacles that we are gradually
overcoming as we use these tools.

I've been a devotee (to a greater or lesser extent over time) of the Getting
Things Done methodology for personal productivity. It has its flaws, but for
the most part it helps me to keep track of everything I need to do, while
staying productive when I'm doing it. (I still struggle a little with the
strategic side of GTD, but I find it works really well at the tactical level.)

## Personal Requirements

So, what tools do I need to implement the 2014 version of Getting Things Done?
Personally, I want tools that cover the following:

* A todo list that's flexible enough to store tasks and projects, no matter the
  size. Recall that, in GTD, a project is simply an outcome that has more than
  one step required to complete it. That means projects can vary in size, from
  the minuscule to the massive.

* A calendar to keep track of meetings and events. In principle, the calendar
  can be used to track "hard deadlines" too but so far ever todo tracking app
  I've used does a better job of that for me, so calendars are just for
  blocking out particular times for particular things -- the "hard landscape".

* A reference filing system for material I might need in future. This is
  everything from bank statements to interesting articles on the web. It's a
  bit of a fight, but I try really hard to make this filing system entirely
  electronic -- accessible from anywhere -- because tying myself to bits of
  paper in particular locations has proven troublesome many times.

* Somewhere to store my own notes and thoughts; a journal. I've played with
  many different options, from paper to storing them all in a unified reference
  filing system alongside other reference material. I've still never found
  something I'm entirely happy with.

* A place to keep track of money: budgeting, planning, and tracking.

### My personal solution

I've played with a few apps over the years, but have recently settled on:

* [OmniFocus](https://www.omnigroup.com/omnifocus) for my projects and actions.
  This is the area in which I've experimented most -- at least partly because
  I'm not satisfied with anything I've used -- but OmniFocus gets closest to
  being right, so I always come back to it in the end.

* [Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/) as my reference filing system. Combined
  with Spotlight (built in search in Mac OS X) it gives me a place to store all
  my stuff that's accessible on all my devices. I deal with most bits of paper
  by scanning them in with my
  [Doxie Go](http://www.getdoxie.com/product/doxie-go/), though sometimes I
  just photograph them with my iPhone. I have a (somewhat cumbersome) work flow
  where I pool together the scanned/photographed material, then OCR it with
  [PDFPen Pro](http://www.smilesoftware.com/PDFpenPro/), give them some tags,
  and save them into Dropbox. I don't often find that I need to retrieve
  documents from my reference file system, so it's tricky to tell how well it
  works.

* [Google Calendar](https://www.google.com/calendar/) (as part of Google Apps)
  for my hard landscape, because being able to share my calendar with family
  and colleagues has always been important.

* [Day One](http://dayoneapp.com) for journaling. For most of the past couple
  of years, I've been using a paper journal (in particular, I'm fond of
  [Moleskine cahiers](http://www.amazon.co.uk/Moleskine-Ruled-Cahier-Extra-Journal/dp/8866134260))
  but they are terrible for search. There are lots of things I would like from
  journalling and note taking that Day One doesn't do, but it's available on
  all my devices and -- most importantly for keeping track of what I'm up to --
  it prompts me on a regular basis to make some notes while I'm working at my
  laptop.

* [You Need a Budget](http://www.youneedabudget.com) (YNAB) for keeping track
  of my finances. The iPhone app works well for quickly recording spending
  while I'm out and about, and the Mac desktop app is great for budgeting &
  reconciling with the bank.

These tools have all served me well, and I enjoy working with them. I've gotten
a lot of benefit from them. But. They don't all work so well in a shared
environment.

## Differing Family Requirements

There are two key differences between a system that works for me, personally,
and a system that works for the entire family. (I'm sure it's the same in a
work team, too!) These are:

* *sharing* between members of the family, whether it's reference
  documentation, shopping lists, ideas for family day trips, or doctors
  appointments.

* *visibility* of where people are, what they're doing, and how the family
  finances are faring.
